Vision benefits are among those that will now be available to same-sex spouses.
Benefits open to same-sex spouses

The same-sex spouses of federal employees can begin applying for benefits including health insurance and retirement accounts immediately, the Obama administration said Friday, two days after the Supreme Court overturned a key provision of the Defense of Marriage Act.

The Office of Personnel Management offered the guidance in a letter to the heads of executive departments and agencies, detailing access to many of the benefits to which legally married same-sex spouses will now have the same access heterosexual married couples do, including health, life, dental, vision and long-term care insurance.

The memo, signed by acting director Elaine Kaplan, does not go into detail about the benefits available to same-sex couples who marry in one state but live in another where those unions are not legal.
By omitting a specific reference to state laws, and repeating that benefits will be available to all legally married couples, OPM appears to be making the case that couples will have access to the listed benefits regardless of the state in which they live.

President Barack Obama said Thursday that, “speaking as a president, not a lawyer,” he believes couples married in one state should be treated as married in all 50 states, but that his administration is working on the legalities of making that reality.

In a statement Friday, the president applauded the expansion of access to federal benefits.
“This is a critical first step toward implementing this week’s landmark Supreme Court decision declaring that all married couples — gay and straight — should be treated equally under federal law,” he said.
“Thousands of gays and lesbians serve our country every day in the federal government.
They, and their spouses and children, deserve the same respect and protection as every other family.

Under the president’s direction, the Justice Department is leading the implementation of the repeal of Section 3 of DOMA.
After the high court’s Wednesday ruling, Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel also said that the Pentagon will move quickly to expand benefits to same-sex couples.

Attorney General Eric Holder welcomed Friday’s announcement.
“Americans in same-sex marriages are entitled to equal protection and equal treatment under the law,” he said in a statement.
“By extending health insurance and other important benefits to federal employees and their families, regardless of whether they are in same-sex or opposite-sex marriages, the Obama administration is making real the promise of this important decision.”

The changes announced Friday “will make a meaningful, positive difference in the lives of many,” Holder said.
“As the president directed, the Department of Justice will continue to coordinate with other federal agencies to implement this ruling as swiftly and smoothly as possible.
I look forward to sharing additional information as it becomes available..”