Obama’s team is spinning the Republican National Convention as a complete miss.
Obama's new challenge: Disappointment

The watchword of the Republican National Convention in Tampa was disappointment — as in President Barack Obama has been one.

You can hammer Obama on health care.
Mock his golf outings.
Demand to see his birth certificate and Harvard transcript, and call him a European socialist bent on turning the American Dream into a Belgian nightmare.
He’ll throw his head back and laugh at you like a Bond villain.

But tell voters he’s not the man America fell in love with in 2008 — and pine, however disingenuously, about his unfulfilled potential — and a shiver runs through his Chicago campaign headquarters.

Obama’s team was spinning the convention as a complete miss, arguing that Republicans didn’t lay a glove on their man.
Yet what emerged from Tampa was a subtle, clever shift in GOP messaging, a much more dangerous strategy for Obama than the kitchen-sink attacks that preceded the gathering.
Republicans posed — rhetorically — as Obama 2008 voters, lamenting his unfulfilled expectations as if they had been with him all along instead of trying to block him at every turn.

Both sides recognize the power of the disappointment theme: that the hope Obama offered for mending the economy, transforming the political process and even saving the earth has faded.

“President Obama promised to begin to slow the rise of the oceans and heal the planet,” Mitt Romney said in accepting the Republican presidential nomination Thursday.
“My promise is to help you and your family.”

Or, as Sen. Marco Rubio put it, “Our problem with President Obama isn’t that he’s a bad person.
Our problem is that he’s a bad president.”

If Republicans landed a punch on Obama, it was the kind of strategic body blow that a skillful pugilist deploys to gain better position for the rest of the fight.

No roundhouse, no jaw-splitter, no knockout.
It was the kind of shot aimed at subtly shifting momentum and softening up the opponent in a way that may not be evident to the casual observer.

Republicans honed their tone.

The shrill hyperbole, petty critiques of Obama’s every move and Party of No intransigence disappeared into the heavy Tampa air.
Surely, some of that will rain back down across other parts of the country during the closing months of the campaign, particularly as super PACs and other outside groups intensify their own lines of attack against Obama.

There was plenty of tough criticism in Tampa — more mockery of Obama’s “you didn’t build that” line, more comparisons of his record to Jimmy Carter’s.
But there were times — prime time, in particular — that the Republican convention looked and sounded like a Democratic gathering.

An appealing young vice-presidential candidate, Paul Ryan, called his mom his role model and vowed to protect Medicare for seniors.

Cuban-American Florida Sen. Marco Rubio and Mexican-American New Mexico Gov. Susana Martinez spoke of the unique opportunities that the United States afforded them to rise into leadership positions.