Hillary Clinton and her running mate, Sen. Tim Kaine of Virginia, speak to reporters on board the Clinton campaign plane on Saturday.

PITTSBURGH—Hillary Clinton on Saturday drew a contrast between how she and Republican rival Donald Trump would conduct their first 100 days in office, zeroing in on his contention that he would sue the women who have accused him of making unwanted sexual advances.

Speaking to reporters on her campaign plane Saturday night, Mrs. Clinton and her running mate, Sen. Tim Kaine of Virginia, said Mr. Trump seemed less intent on governing than on avenging personal grievances.

Earlier on Saturday, Mr. Trump spoke at the Civil War battlefield in Gettysburg, Pa., where he laid out his agenda for the first 100 days of his presidency and threatened to sue his accusers after the election.

The remark got the attention of the Clinton campaign, which has been trying to make inroads among college-educated women who normally vote Republican.

“Our opponent, Donald Trump, went to Gettysburg, one of the most extraordinary places in American history,” Mrs. Clinton said, “and basically said if he’s president he will spend his time suing women who have made charges against him based on his behavior.”

By contrast, she said, “Tim and I are going to keep talking about what we want to do if we’re given the great honor of serving as president and vice president.
We’ll get to work the day after the election and do everything possible to be prepared on Jan. 20 to start doing the business of the American people.”

Mr. Kaine, who was accompanying Mrs. Clinton to a late-night rally in Philadelphia, added that Mr. Trump “seemed most personally invested in…all of the scores that he needs to settle with people he’s mad at.”

The pair had just come from a rally at a local high school in Pittsburgh.
Both campaigns have made Pennsylvania a particular focus.
Analysts believe that a Clinton victory in the state would cut off one possible path by which Mr. Trump could reach the needed threshold of 270 electoral votes.

Speaking to 1,800 people at the Pittsburgh rally, Mrs. Clinton touched on a theme she has emphasized in recent days: that Mr. Trump is a danger to America’s democratic traditions.
She has faulted him for saying during Wednesday’s presidential debate that he might not concede the election in the event of a defeat.

Failing to accept election results, however disappointing, is the difference between “leadership and dictatorship,” Mrs. Clinton said Saturday, adding that Mr. Trump shows a troubling disregard for constitutional freedoms and protections.

She also referred to the GOP presidential nominee’s contention that she should be jailed for using a private email system while she was secretary of state.

“Every time he says he wants to jail his opponent—meaning me—I think to myself, ‘We don’t do that in America.
We actually have laws and courts and an independent judiciary,’” she said.

Mrs. Clinton spent part of the 37-minute address making a case for Democratic Senate candidate Katie McGinty, who is challenging incumbent Pennsylvania Republican Pat Toomey.

Democrats believe Mr. Toomey’s defeat is central to retaking control of the Senate and providing Mrs. Clinton with a friendlier Congress should she win in November.
Mr. Toomey leads by about two points in the Real Clear Politics average of polls.

In devoting time to Ms. McGinty’s campaign, Mrs. Clinton showed she is thinking about down-ballot races that would affect her policy agenda should she win on Nov. 8.

“Katie will help us break through the gridlock—actually make a difference in people’s lives,” Mrs. Clinton said.