Splashed across the cover of this week’s Newsweek magazine is a picture of the Republican presidential candidate and Tea Party favorite Representative Michele Bachmann.
Her eyes are open wide — very, very wide — focused intensely somewhere off in the distance, just a smidge too high above the camera.
At the bottom of the page, floating across her torso in bold white letters, are the words “The Queen of Rage.”

Many in the conservative blogosphere are not pleased.

“Exactly what were the editors thinking putting this kind of a picture of a sitting congresswoman and presidential candidate on their cover?” wrote Noel Sheppard on the conservative Web site News Busters, under the headline “Newsweek Puts Picture of Michele Bachmann on Cover That Makes Her Look Crazy.”

A blogger on the Web site Freedom’s Lighthouse said, “Can anyone really say with a straight face that the Mainstream Media is not totally biased against conservatives?”

But even some unlikely allies have emerged to decry the cover as disrespectful.

“It’s sexist,” said Terry O’Neill, the president of the National Organization for Women, to the news Web site the Daily Caller, which is run by the conservative commentator Tucker Carlson.

“Gloria Steinem has a very simple test,” Ms. O’Neill continued.
“If this were done to a man or would it ever be done to a man – has it ever been done to a man?
Surely this has never been done to a man.”

Monday night, Newsweek responded to the controversy by posting an “outtakes” gallery on its Daily Beast Web site, showcasing other photos taken for the article.
The pictures show Ms. Bachmann shaking hands with voters, standing by herself in the corner of a room and signing autographs, all with the same wide-eyed intensity as in the cover shot.

The cover goes with an article by Lois Romano about Ms. Bachmann’s place in the Tea Party movement and on the national stage.
The article itself seems to have spawned little outrage.

This is not the first time Newsweek has caused a stir with its cover choices.
In 2009, the editors selected a photo of Sarah Palin in running shorts, which the former governor — and many others — called “sexist.”

Just this past June, the news magazine ran a computer generated image of Catherine, the new Duchess of Cambridge, walking alongside Princess Diana, who has been dead for nearly 14 years.

The Atlantic Wire ran a story about that cover called, simply, “How Creepy Is Princess Diana’s Ghost on the Cover of Newsweek?”