Rep. Michael Grimm (R-N.Y.) is expected to be indicted by the U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of New York, Grimm's lawyer said Friday.

Politico was first to report the news of the expected indictment.
Grimm's lawyer, William McGinley, said in a statement that the U.S. attorney's office "has disclosed its intent to file criminal charges."

"We are disappointed by the government’s decision, but hardly surprised," he said.
"From the beginning, the government has pursued a politically driven vendetta against Congressman Grimm and not an independent search for the truth.
Congressman Grimm asserts his innocence of any wrongdoing.

"When the dust settles, he will be vindicated," McGinley added.
"Until then, he will continue to serve his constituents with the same dedication and tenacity that has characterized his lifetime of public service as a Member of Congress, Marine Corps combat veteran, and decorated FBI Special Agent.”

The New York Times reported the charges against Grimm "will include mail fraud and wire fraud and focus on his conduct in connection with a health food restaurant he owned on the Upper East Side of Manhattan after he left the Federal Bureau of Investigation in 2006," citing someone familiar with the case.

The Justice Department began investigating Grimm two years ago on allegations that he filed erroneous campaign finance reports and accepted improper donations during his first congressional campaign.

More recently, Grimm was in the news in January after he physically threatened a reporter in the Capitol.

The second-term congressman represents New York’s 11th District, which includes Staten Island and part of Brooklyn.

The Washington Post reported that Grimm is likely to turn himself in once the indictment is unsealed.

UPDATE: 7:19 p.m. -- The Washington Post now reports that Grimm has already "been secretly indicted by a federal grand jury in Brooklyn, according to people familiar with the case.
The indictment is expected to be unsealed in the coming days."