Beck Wows the CPAC Crowd

Glenn Beck, the hero of the political right and the closing speaker of a three-day conservative conference, ripped the roof off a Washington hotel Saturday with a sweeping denunciation of progressivism.

Progressivism, he told the Conservative Political Action Conference, is a cancer that must be cut out of the system.

But he aimed his fire at Republicans as well as Democrats, and gave them little quarter, saying he did not know what the Republicans stood for.

“It’s not enough just to not suck as much as the other side,” he said.

Noting that he was a recovering alcoholic himself, he said that the party had to admit that it had a problem, which he had not heard it do.

“Hello, my name is the Republican Party and I have a problem!” he declared.
“I’m addicted to spending and big government,” he said, drawing cheers and applause from the thousands of people packed into the hotel ballroom.

But both parties are to blame, he said.
The Democrats tax and spend, while the Republicans just spend.

People are losing a fundamental belief that things will get better, he said.

“It is still morning in America,” he posited, “it just happens to be kind of a head-pounding, hung-over, vomiting-for-four-hours kind of morning in America.
And it’s shaping up to be kind of a nasty day, but it’s still morning in America.”

When the audience finished laughing, he asked: “What made us sit there at the john making us vomit for four hours?
What are we suffering from?”

Saying President Obama, he said, was “too simple an answer.”

The real problem, he said, is progressivism, scrawling the word with chalk on his signature blackboard. “This is the disease in America,” he said.

He held the audience spellbound with riffs on his personal life laced through his political philosophy, strong on personal responsibility.

“Who can guarantee you happiness?“ he asked. “Tiger Woods wasn’t happy.”

If you find financial success on the road to happiness, he said, conservatives believe “you shouldn’t be demonized or penalized by it.”

“I’m not going to pay for your mistakes and I don’t expect you to pay for my mistakes,” he said, to wild applause.