WASHINGTON – The Senate will vote Thursday on a pair of bills to fund the federal government, the first sign of movement in weeks toward ending a budget standoff that has triggered the longest government shutdown in history.

Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., announced Tuesday the chamber will vote to begin debate on a bill that would provide $5.7 billion for a border wall and make other concessions that President Donald Trump offered to Democrats over the weekend.

If that bill fails to get the 60 votes needed to overcome a filibuster, senators will then vote to begin debate on a short-term measure that would reopen the government until Feb. 8.
The House approved that proposal last week.

But that bill also will require 60 votes, a threshold that will be hard to reach and will require bipartisan support.
And even if the measure passes, Trump has threatened to veto it.

Regardless, the votes will mark the first time since just before Christmas that the Senate has voted on legislation to end the shutdown, now in its 32nd day.

“The opportunity to end all this is staring us right in the face,” McConnell said.
“All that needs to happen is for our Democratic friends to put the country ahead of politics, take yes for an answer and vote to put this standoff behind us.”

Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., said he also will present a proposal to Trump Wednesday morning to end the shutdown.
Graham told reporters in South Carolina he would urge Trump to sign a measure reopening the entire federal government if House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., agrees to take up a bipartisan Senate bill dealing with a border wall and other immigration issues.

Pelosi said in a statement there's no reason for senators not to pass the House-backed measure since the funding proposal it contains has previously cleared the Senate.

“Senate Republicans need to re-open government, not continue their complicity in the Trump Shutdown with a vote for the president’s unacceptable border and immigration schemes that only increase the chaos and suffering at the border," she said.
“The Senate GOP and President Trump must stop holding the American people hostage, and re-open government immediately.”

House Democrats, meanwhile, are pushing their own spending bill that will offer roughly $1 billion for construction at ports of entry and for hiring new immigration judges – but no money for a border wall.
That bill is certain to die in the GOP-led Senate.

There was also a growing push in the House from centrist Democrats looking for a way out of the shutdown.
A draft letter to Pelosi encouraged Democratic leadership to offer the president and Republicans a vote for a wall along the southern border next month if they voted to open the government up before that happened.

Rep. Elaine Luria, D-Va., who represents a congressional district Trump won by 3 points, has taken the lead on the letter.
Rep. Ben McAdams, D-Utah, another freshman who flipped a red district (the president won his Utah district by 7 percentage points), intends to sign onto the final draft.

McAdams dismissed questions about whether the letter was a pointed message to leadership and said centrists were just trying to outline a way out of the shutdown.

“I don’t think this attitude is anything new,” he said.
“We shouldn’t be putting the American people in the place of a bargaining chip so let’s reopen the government and continue to have these conversations."

On Tuesday, Trump accused Democrats of playing politics and indicated he has no intention of backing down in his demand of border wall funding.

“Without a Wall our Country can never have Border or National Security,” he wrote on Twitter.
“With a powerful Wall or Steel Barrier, Crime Rates (and Drugs) will go substantially down all over the U.S.
The Dems know this but want to play political games.
Must finally be done correctly.
No Cave!”

Trump struck a less-confrontational tone on Saturday when he used a White House speech to outline what he called “a common-sense compromise both parties can embrace” to fund the government and end the shutdown.

Late Monday, the Senate released draft legislation including Trump’s proposals.
The bill is one of two the Senate will consider Thursday.

The 1,301-page bill would provide $5.7 billion to build Trump’s long-promised wall along the U.S.-Mexico border.
It also would include three years of protection for young immigrants brought into the country illegally and for people granted Temporary Protected Status because of a crisis in their home countries.

In addition, the bill includes $12.7 billion in aid for victims of last year’s hurricanes, wildfires and other natural disasters.

One part of the bill that is already drawing criticism from immigration groups would change how minors from Central America seek asylum.

The proposal would require them to apply for asylum in their home country instead of at the southwest border, as many have done in recent years.
The number who could apply would be limited to 50,000 a year, and only 15,000 could be approved every year.
To win approval, asylum would have to be determined to be in “the national interest.”

Kerri Talbot, director of federal advocacy for the Immigration Hub, a group that advocates on behalf of immigrants, scoffed at the idea that the bill represented any kind of compromise, labeling it a “Trojan Horse” instead.

“This is a Stephen Miller special,” Talbot said, referring to the White House adviser who has led Trump’s efforts to attack legal and illegal immigration.

Greg Chen of the American Immigration Lawyers Association said the bill would destroy the very concept of asylum in the U.S.

“This is a major change, a historic change that would be ushered in by this bill, closing down so many for asylum protections that we have,” Chen said.

In the House, meanwhile, the legislation that Democrats will put forward for a vote this week includes $563 million to hire more immigration judges and $524 million for construction at ports of entry, though none of the money can be used for Trump’s demand for a border wall, said Evan Hollander, spokesman for the House Appropriations Committee.

The bill would reopen the government and fund most government agencies through the end of September.

The House already passed a bill that would temporarily fund the Department of Homeland Security through Feb 8.
That department is not included in the latest bill.